docs(webhosting): docs webhosting (#1204)
scaleway/docs-content: managed-services/webhosting/quickstart.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Webhosting - Quickstart

>   description: This page shows you how to get started with webhosting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: This page shows you how to get started with Webhosting.
```

>   description: This page shows you how to get started with webhosting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  description: This page shows you how to get started with Webhosting.
```

content:
  h1: Webhosting - Quickstart

>   paragraph: This page shows you how to get started with webhosting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  paragraph: This page shows you how to get started with Webhosting.
```

>   paragraph: This page shows you how to get started with webhosting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  paragraph: This page shows you how to get started with Webhosting.
```

tags: webhosting cpanel
dates:
  validation: 2022-11-24
  posted: 2021-05-26
categories:
  - webhosting
---
cPanel is a website management control panel tool, providing users with a graphical interface and fast access icons which allow the configuration and monitoring of their hosting solutions. Features like publishing websites, launching databases, creating emails, and managing files are available through the cPanel interface with elevated performance.

## Getting started

> Not sure where to begin? Take a look at our Frequently Asked Questions, which guide you to the relevant official cPanel documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not sure where to begin? Take a look at our Frequently Asked Questions, which guide you to the relevant cPanel documentation pages.
```

* [How do I use cPanel?](https://docs.cpanel.net/cpanel/the-cpanel-interface/the-cpanel-interface/)
* [How do I set up SSH Access?](https://docs.cpanel.net/cpanel/security/ssh-access/)
* [How do I manage my e-mail accounts?](https://docs.cpanel.net/cpanel/email/email-accounts/#overview)
* [How do I configure my FTP accounts (create, access & delete)?](https://docs.cpanel.net/cpanel/files/ftp-accounts/)
* [How do I manage my databases?](https://docs.cpanel.net/cpanel/databases/)
  * [With MySQL](https://docs.cpanel.net/cpanel/databases/mysql-databases/)
  * [With PostgresQL](https://docs.cpanel.net/cpanel/databases/postgresql-databases/)
* [How do I manage my domains?](https://docs.cpanel.net/cpanel/domains/domains/)

## How to access cPanel via the Console 

1. Click **Webhosting** in the **Managed Services** section of the [console](https://console.scaleway.com/) side menu. The **Webhosting** overview page displays.

> 2. Click <icon name="seeMore" /> or the domain name of the webhosting you want to configure. The **Hosting information** page displays.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Click <icon name="seeMore" /> or the domain name of the webhosting service you want to configure. The **Hosting information** page displays.
```

> 2. Click <icon name="seeMore" /> or the domain name of the Webhosting service you want to configure. The **Hosting information** page displays.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Click <Icon name="seeMore" /> or the domain name of the Webhosting service you want to configure. The **Hosting information** page displays.
```

3. Click **Dashboard** next to **Link to cPanel** to open the cPanel interface in a new tab.
    <Lightbox src="scaleway-webhosting-cpanel.webp" alt="" />
    <Message type="tip">
        Alternatively you can reach cPanel via the **cPanel** button in the top right corner of the **Hosting information** section.
    </Message>
4. Enter your cPanel credentials and click **Log in** to log into cPanel. 

> ## How to access the Webmail 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How to access webmail 
```

If you wish to manage your e-mails through cPanel, you can access the webmail platform directly via the webmail link in the **Hosting information** of your Webhosting.

## How to configure DNS for Webhosting

> To link your domain name with your Webhosting you have to update the nameservers in the DNS configuration at your registrar. Nameservers are servers used to translate domain names into IP addresses. When you enter a URL in a browser, they show you where the website is located, instead of memorizing entire numerical sequences in the form of IP addresses.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To link your domain name with your Webhosting service you have to update the nameservers in the DNS configuration at your registrar. Nameservers are servers used to translate domain names into IP addresses. When you enter a URL in a browser, they show you where the website is located, instead of memorizing entire numerical sequences in the form of IP addresses.
```

> To link your domain name with your Webhosting you have to update the nameservers in the DNS configuration at your Registrar. Nameservers are servers used to translate domain names into IP addresses. When you enter a URL in a browser, they show you where the website is located, instead of memorizing entire numerical sequences in the form of IP addresses.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To link your domain name with your Webhosting you have to update the nameservers in the DNS configuration at your registrar. Nameservers are servers used to translate domain names into IP addresses. When you enter a URL in a browser, they show you where the website is located, instead of memorizing entire numerical sequences in the form of IP addresses.
```

<Message type="important">
  If you are migrating from another Webhosting provider to Scaleway Webhosting, you might need to [update your nameserver information](/managed-services/webhosting/how-to/configure-dns-webhosting/) with the information available in your console.
</Message>

1. Click **Webhosting** in the **Managed Services** section of the [console](https://console.scaleway.com/) side menu. The **Webhosting** overview page displays.

> 2. Click <icon name="seeMore" /> or the domain name of the webhosting you want to configure. The **Hosting information** page displays.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Click <Icon name="seeMore" /> or the domain name of the Webhosting you want to configure. The **Hosting information** page displays.
```

3. Click the **DNS Verification** tab. The DNS configuration page displays.
4. Update your DNS servers. Two options are available:
    - Use Scaleway's DNS servers. 

>         We provide DNS servers for your webhosting that contain all required DNS configuration. To use these nameservers, update the nameservers assoicated with your domain name with the servers provided by Scaleway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        We provide DNS servers for your webhosting that contain all required DNS configuration. To use these nameservers, update the nameservers associated with your domain name with the servers provided by Scaleway.
```

    - Manual DNS configuration (advanced).
        If you prefer to continue using your current DNS servers, update the DNS zone at your registrar with all DNS records provided.
    <Message type="note">

>         It can take 24 to 48 hours until your DNS updates have been propagated on the Internet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        It can take 24 to 48 hours until your DNS updates are propagated on the Internet.
```

    </Message>
5. Click **Verify domain** once you have updated your DNS configuration. The DNS verfication process will be launched.

>     Once the process has been completed successfully, you will notice a green dot next to **DNS verification**. You DNS is now configured and linked with your Webhosting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Once the process has been completed successfully, you will notice a green dot next to **DNS verification**. You DNS is now configured and linked with your Webhosting service.
```
